README.md, before:

# dnfdragora 
![logo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/manatools/dnfdragora/master/share/images/64x64/dnfdragora-logo.png "dnfdragora") dnfdragora is a [DNF](http://dnf.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) frontend, based on rpmdragora from Mageia (originally rpmdrake) Perl code.

dnfdragora is written in Python 3 and uses libYui, the widget abstraction library written by SUSE, so that it can be run using Qt 5, GTK+ 3, or ncurses interfaces.

Example with Qt:
![dnfdragora with Qt UI](screenshots/dnfdragora-qt.png "dnfdragora with Qt UI")

Example with GtK:
![dnfdragora with GtK UI](screenshots/dnfdragora-gtk.png "dnfdragora with GtK UI")

Example with ncurses:
![dnfdragora with ncurses UI](screenshots/dnfdragora-ncurses.png "dnfdragora with ncurses UI")

## REQUIREMENTS

### DNF
* https://github.com/rpm-software-management/dnf
* Version higher than 1.1.9 required.

### DNF Daemon
* https://github.com/manatools/dnfdaemon/

### pystray >= 0.16
* https://github.com/moses-palmer/pystray

### SUSE libyui
* https://github.com/libyui/libyui
* Consider to check some not yet approved changes here https://github.com/anaselli/libyui

### libyui-mga > 1.1.0 - our widget extension
* https://github.com/manatools/libyui-mga

### SUSE libyui-bindings
* https://github.com/libyui/libyui-bindings
  At the moment add patch from anaselli branch to manage new libyui-mga 1.1.0 at
  https://github.com/libyui/libyui-bindings/pull/35

### python-manatools
* https://github.com/manatools/python-manatools

### at least one of the SUSE libyui plugins
* libyui-gtk     - https://github.com/libyui/libyui-gtk
* libyui-ncurses - https://github.com/libyui/libyui-ncurses
* libyui-qt      - https://github.com/libyui/libyui-qt
* Consider here also to check some not yet approved changes at
  https://github.com/anaselli/libyui-XXX forks (where XXX is
  gtk, qt or ncurses)

### at least one of the MGA libyui widget extension plugins (according to the one above)
* libyui-mga-gtk     - https://github.com/manatools/libyui-mga-gtk
* libyui-mga-ncurses - https://github.com/manatools/libyui-mga-ncurses
* libyui-mga-qt      - https://github.com/manatools/libyui-mga-qt

## INSTALLATION

### Distribution packages:
* Mageia:
    * dnfdragora: `dnf install dnfdragora` or `urpmi dnfdragora`
    * dnfdragora-gui: `dnf install dnfdragora-<gui>` or `urpmi dnfdragora-<gui>`
        * Replace `<gui>` with `qt` or `gtk` depending on desired toolkit
* Fedora:
    * dnfdragora:     `dnf install dnfdragora`     (installs all needed for use on terminal)
    * dnfdragora-gui: `dnf install dnfdragora-gui` (installs all needed for use in desktop environment)

### From sources:
* Packages needed to build:
    * cmake >= 3.4.0
    * python3-devel >= 3.4.0
    * optional: gettext        (for locales)
    * optional: python3-sphinx (for manpages)
* Configure: `mkdir build && cd build && cmake ..`
    * -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr      - Sets the install path, eg. /usr, /usr/local or /opt
    * -DCHECK_RUNTIME_DEPENDENCIES=ON  - Checks if the needed runtime dependencies are met.
    * -DENABLE_COMPS=ON                - Useful if your distribution uses COMPS for groups, eg. Fedora, RHEL, CentOS
* Build:     `make`
* Install:   `make install`
* Run:       `dnfdragora`

### From sources (for developers and testers only):
* Packages needed to build:
    * cmake >= 3.4.0
    * python3-devel >= 3.4.0
    * python3-virtualenv
    * optional: gettext        (for locales)
    * optional: python3-sphinx (for manpages)
* Setup your virtual environment
    * cd $DNFDRAGORA_PROJ_DIR                 # DNFDRAGORA_PROJ_DIR is the dnfdragora project directory
    * virtualenv --system-site-packages venv  # create virtual environment under venv directory
    * . venv/bin/activate                     # activate virtual environment
* Configure: `mkdir build && cd build && cmake -D... .. && make install`
    * needed cmake options are
        * -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$DNFDRAGORA_PROJ_DIR/venv              - venv install prefix 
        * -DCMAKE_INSTALL_FULL_SYSCONFDIR=$DNFDRAGORA_PROJ_DIR/venv/etc - venv sysconfig directory
    * useful cmake options are
        * -DCHECK_RUNTIME_DEPENDENCIES=ON  - Checks if the needed runtime dependencies are met.
        * -DENABLE_COMPS=ON                - Useful if your distribution uses COMPS for groups, eg. Fedora, RHEL, CentOS
* Run: `dnfdragora` into virtual environment, add '--locales-dir' option if you want to test localization locally)
    * useful dnfdragora options are
        * --locales-dir         - if you want to test localization locally
        * --images-path         - local icons and images (set to $DNFDRAGORA_PROJ_DIR/venv/share/dnfdragora/images/)

## CONTRIBUTE

Manatools and dnfdragora developers as well as some users or contributors are on IRC. They often discuss development issues there
and that to have imeediate feedbacks and ideas. The Freenode IRC channel is **#manatools**, get in touch with us. 

If you have any issues or ideas add or comment an [issue](https://github.com/manatools/dnfdragora/issues).

Check also into our [TODO](TODO.md) file.

## LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

See [license](LICENSE) file.

Commit message:

Update for move to Matrix (and Libera Chat IRC)

README.md, after:

# dnfdragora 
![logo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/manatools/dnfdragora/master/share/images/64x64/dnfdragora-logo.png "dnfdragora") dnfdragora is a [DNF](http://dnf.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) frontend, based on rpmdragora from Mageia (originally rpmdrake) Perl code.

dnfdragora is written in Python 3 and uses libYui, the widget abstraction library written by SUSE, so that it can be run using Qt 5, GTK+ 3, or ncurses interfaces.

Example with Qt:
![dnfdragora with Qt UI](screenshots/dnfdragora-qt.png "dnfdragora with Qt UI")

Example with GtK:
![dnfdragora with GtK UI](screenshots/dnfdragora-gtk.png "dnfdragora with GtK UI")

Example with ncurses:
![dnfdragora with ncurses UI](screenshots/dnfdragora-ncurses.png "dnfdragora with ncurses UI")

## REQUIREMENTS

### DNF
* https://github.com/rpm-software-management/dnf
* Version higher than 1.1.9 required.

### DNF Daemon
* https://github.com/manatools/dnfdaemon/

### pystray >= 0.16
* https://github.com/moses-palmer/pystray

### SUSE libyui
* https://github.com/libyui/libyui
* Consider to check some not yet approved changes here https://github.com/anaselli/libyui

### libyui-mga > 1.1.0 - our widget extension
* https://github.com/manatools/libyui-mga

### SUSE libyui-bindings
* https://github.com/libyui/libyui-bindings
  At the moment add patch from anaselli branch to manage new libyui-mga 1.1.0 at
  https://github.com/libyui/libyui-bindings/pull/35

### python-manatools
* https://github.com/manatools/python-manatools

### at least one of the SUSE libyui plugins
* libyui-gtk     - https://github.com/libyui/libyui-gtk
* libyui-ncurses - https://github.com/libyui/libyui-ncurses
* libyui-qt      - https://github.com/libyui/libyui-qt
* Consider here also to check some not yet approved changes at
  https://github.com/anaselli/libyui-XXX forks (where XXX is
  gtk, qt or ncurses)

### at least one of the MGA libyui widget extension plugins (according to the one above)
* libyui-mga-gtk     - https://github.com/manatools/libyui-mga-gtk
* libyui-mga-ncurses - https://github.com/manatools/libyui-mga-ncurses
* libyui-mga-qt      - https://github.com/manatools/libyui-mga-qt

## INSTALLATION

### Distribution packages:
* Mageia:
    * dnfdragora: `dnf install dnfdragora` or `urpmi dnfdragora`
    * dnfdragora-gui: `dnf install dnfdragora-<gui>` or `urpmi dnfdragora-<gui>`
        * Replace `<gui>` with `qt` or `gtk` depending on desired toolkit
* Fedora:
    * dnfdragora:     `dnf install dnfdragora`     (installs all needed for use on terminal)
    * dnfdragora-gui: `dnf install dnfdragora-gui` (installs all needed for use in desktop environment)

### From sources:
* Packages needed to build:
    * cmake >= 3.4.0
    * python3-devel >= 3.4.0
    * optional: gettext        (for locales)
    * optional: python3-sphinx (for manpages)
* Configure: `mkdir build && cd build && cmake ..`
    * -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr      - Sets the install path, eg. /usr, /usr/local or /opt
    * -DCHECK_RUNTIME_DEPENDENCIES=ON  - Checks if the needed runtime dependencies are met.
    * -DENABLE_COMPS=ON                - Useful if your distribution uses COMPS for groups, eg. Fedora, RHEL, CentOS
* Build:     `make`
* Install:   `make install`
* Run:       `dnfdragora`

### From sources (for developers and testers only):
* Packages needed to build:
    * cmake >= 3.4.0
    * python3-devel >= 3.4.0
    * python3-virtualenv
    * optional: gettext        (for locales)
    * optional: python3-sphinx (for manpages)
* Setup your virtual environment
    * cd $DNFDRAGORA_PROJ_DIR                 # DNFDRAGORA_PROJ_DIR is the dnfdragora project directory
    * virtualenv --system-site-packages venv  # create virtual environment under venv directory
    * . venv/bin/activate                     # activate virtual environment
* Configure: `mkdir build && cd build && cmake -D... .. && make install`
    * needed cmake options are
        * -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$DNFDRAGORA_PROJ_DIR/venv              - venv install prefix 
        * -DCMAKE_INSTALL_FULL_SYSCONFDIR=$DNFDRAGORA_PROJ_DIR/venv/etc - venv sysconfig directory
    * useful cmake options are
        * -DCHECK_RUNTIME_DEPENDENCIES=ON  - Checks if the needed runtime dependencies are met.
        * -DENABLE_COMPS=ON                - Useful if your distribution uses COMPS for groups, eg. Fedora, RHEL, CentOS
* Run: `dnfdragora` into virtual environment, add '--locales-dir' option if you want to test localization locally)
    * useful dnfdragora options are
        * --locales-dir         - if you want to test localization locally
        * --images-path         - local icons and images (set to $DNFDRAGORA_PROJ_DIR/venv/share/dnfdragora/images/)

## CONTRIBUTE

ManaTools and dnfdragora developers (as well as some users and contributors) are on Matrix. They often discuss development issues there
to get immediate feedback and develop ideas. The Matrix room is [`#manatools:matrix.org`](https://matrix.to/#manatools:matrix.org).
The Matrix room is also bridged to the IRC channel `#manatools` on Libera Chat. Get in touch with us!

If you have any issues or ideas add or comment an [issue](https://github.com/manatools/dnfdragora/issues).

Check also into our [TODO](TODO.md) file.

## LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

See [license](LICENSE) file.
