TODO.md, before:

This file is meant to get a list of things that should be hopefully implemented or fixed
as soon as possible. 

# Near term targets

## Critical
- all the [issues](https://github.com/manatools/dnfdragora/issues) of course

## Important
- [ ] Provide Help and documentation (daily users here are welcome)
- [ ] User settings search option are not set at exit but at next start up

### Async working:
- [ ] Fix transactions to make them async too (in progress, missing undo)
- [ ] Change progress bar layout (in progress)
- [ ] Fix window layout to gain room see issues [79](https://github.com/manatools/dnfdragora/issues/79), [107](https://github.com/manatools/dnfdragora/issues/107)
- [ ] Fix dnfdragora-update notifiy/menu seems not to be shown after running dinfdragora (in progress) issues [112](https://github.com/manatools/dnfdragora/issues/112), [130](https://github.com/manatools/dnfdragora/issues/130), [134](https://github.com/manatools/dnfdragora/issues/134), [150](https://github.com/manatools/dnfdragora/issues/150)
- [ ] Fix group caching if comp is selected (in progress, it works but sync now)
- [ ] Let the user know when DB is locked on dnfdragora startup
- [ ] Add and/or change some icons if possible (in progress thanks to Carson Black) issues ~~[55](https://github.com/manatools/dnfdragora/issues/55)~~, [139](https://github.com/manatools/dnfdragora/issues/139)
- [ ] Improve error management and user warning on errors (add transaction, etc.)


## Nice to have 
-   Modifying repository configuration to override settings per repository.
-   Add a way to search, enable, and disable COPR repositories

# Medium term targets
-   Handle solution errors. In the event that there's a dependency problem detected, we should
    offer the user a way to resolve it from within the UI so that it can be resolved.
-   Offer weak dependency options, handling both forward and reverse dependencies.
    With weak dependencies, we should offer a way for the user to select whether to install
    recommended/supplementary packages, add suggested/enhancing packages to the transaction, etc.
-   Handle multiple provider case. When something is provided by multiple packages, we need to be
    able to offer the user a choice and indicate a sane default based on the system package
    set and the transaction itself.

# Long term targets
-   Handle complex dependencies. If there are conditional dependencies, we should offer ways to
    select from the set of options (in the case with Requires with "or") or offer ways to enable
    additional functionality (in the case where Requires only activate if something is installed).

Commit message:

Hiding menu when dnfdragora or update or if check for updates is running

TODO.md, after:

This file is meant to get a list of things that should be hopefully implemented or fixed
as soon as possible. 

# Near term targets

## Critical
- all the [issues](https://github.com/manatools/dnfdragora/issues) of course

## Important
- [X] Provide Help and documentation (daily users here are welcome)
- [X] User settings search option are not set at exit but at next start up

### Async working:
- [ ] Fix transactions to make them async too (in progress, missing undo)
- [ ] Change progress bar layout (in progress)
- [X] Fix window layout to gain room see issues [79](https://github.com/manatools/dnfdragora/issues/79), [107](https://github.com/manatools/dnfdragora/issues/107)
- [X] Fix dnfdragora-update notifiy/menu seems not to be shown after running dinfdragora (in progress) issues [112](https://github.com/manatools/dnfdragora/issues/112), [130](https://github.com/manatools/dnfdragora/issues/130), [134](https://github.com/manatools/dnfdragora/issues/134)
- [ ] Find a way to hide dnfdragora-update menu when no updates are available (now managed with two kind of icons [150](https://github.com/manatools/dnfdragora/issues/150))
- [ ] Add a configuration entry for hiding dnfdragora-update menu when no updates are available 
- [ ] Fix group caching if comp is selected (in progress, it works but sync now)
- [ ] Let the user know when DB is locked on dnfdragora startup
- [ ] Add and/or change some icons if possible (in progress thanks to Carson Black) issues ~~[55](https://github.com/manatools/dnfdragora/issues/55)~~, [139](https://github.com/manatools/dnfdragora/issues/139)
- [ ] Improve error management and user warning on errors (add transaction, etc.)


## Nice to have 
-   Modifying repository configuration to override settings per repository.
-   Add a way to search, enable, and disable COPR repositories

# Medium term targets
-   Handle solution errors. In the event that there's a dependency problem detected, we should
    offer the user a way to resolve it from within the UI so that it can be resolved.
-   Offer weak dependency options, handling both forward and reverse dependencies.
    With weak dependencies, we should offer a way for the user to select whether to install
    recommended/supplementary packages, add suggested/enhancing packages to the transaction, etc.
-   Handle multiple provider case. When something is provided by multiple packages, we need to be
    able to offer the user a choice and indicate a sane default based on the system package
    set and the transaction itself.

# Long term targets
-   Handle complex dependencies. If there are conditional dependencies, we should offer ways to
    select from the set of options (in the case with Requires with "or") or offer ways to enable
    additional functionality (in the case where Requires only activate if something is installed).
